# The Hacker Archetype

Hacking - as we currently know it, after its mainstream emergence through the 90s, has gone through many changes in how it is seen. As with many fields that emerged from the fringe, there has been a desire to legitimise the field. Out of this have emerged terms like "white hat," "black hat" and "grey hat" hackers - giving an oddly moral spin to the discipline. Penetration testers have become mainstream - even required - turning hacking skills into a profession. 

One of the fundamental troubles that comes from our conscious awareness is the ultimate awareness that there is no "there" there. By this, I mean that while the physical world seems rigid, familiar, something we have been able to shape into a place that is familiar and that we can easily interact with and move through, we nevertheless remain struck by the question of whether there is something 'up' - something beyond 'all this'. And unless one is captivated by religion, the conclusion we quickly come to is: there is not. 

And so the fate of all forms of awareness is to see that that which we have built is built on imaginary foundations. Foundations that someone just "came up with one day." All which is human does not have the physical concreteness of, say, concrete. Instead, this reality is created by consensus. Something we seem often to forget is that the difference between sanity and insanity is how many people agree with you. When a man today says he is the son of God, he is given therapy, anti-psychotic drugs, and may even end up in an institution. Two thousand years ago, another man saying similar things ended up founding a religion that now has a billion adherents. For atheists, it seems insane to have built a society and a value system on the basis of a man who may have been suffering from an extended psychotic episode. For Christians, to suggest that the person their whole religion was suffering from a psychotic episode might undermine the whole endeavour - or be considered blasphemy. For reasons unknown to me, to say that Jesus may have been suffering from psychosis does not, to me, undermine the validity of the religion. 
