Dear Owen

Firstly, I want to thank you for taking the time to respond. I was not expecting you to reply at all, let alone take the time to write such an eloquent reply. Thank you. 

The arguments you have put forward are all extremely well put, and have prompted me to examine some of the positions I have taken to date. 

The main thing I would like to understand is how you think Israel should have responded to the October 7th attack. Hamas, the democratically elected party of Gaza, is unequivocally a terrorist organisation. It uses civilians to shield its operations. Hamas builds headquarters under hospitals, use hospitals to store ammunition, set up headquarters in schools. Only two weeks ago Hamas claimed responsibility for a suicide bombing in Tel Aviv. Your use of "war crimes" is noteworthy, as under the law of armed conflict (LoAC), combatants captured by either side have certain rights, like equal access to medical treatment and food. But access to those rights requires adherence to LoAC. 

This is not remotely to say that the IDF have not committed war crimes, and I wholeheartedly condemn all that they have committed. But under LoAC, a hospital housing a military headquarters is no longer protected, and is legitimate military target. Same for schools, places of worship, or any other site proscribed under LoAC. This places Israel in an incredibly complicated position. They are fighting an organisation that is wilfully ignoring LoAC in order to force Israel to kill civilians. Any civilian death in war is an unspeakable tragedy, especially when it is a child who is killed. And these deaths all too quickly become statistics, rather than precious lives that are snuffed out by the brutality of war. But it is difficult to see how Israel can attempt to root out Hamas without incurring huge numbers of civilian casualties as a result of Hamas's perfidious conduct. 

I would, at this juncture, like to point out that genocide is defined as "the deliberate killing of a large number of people from a particular nation or ethnic group with the aim of destroying that nation or group." Israel has made it explicitly clear that its conflict is with Hamas, not with the Palestinian people. Perhaps this is a facetious point, but there were ten Arab-Israeli politicians elected to the 25th Knesset. Clearly, there are no Israeli politicians in the governments of either Hamas or the Palestinian Authority. If there is more evidence you would like to point to of genocide of the Palestinian people I would welcome seeing it. 

In light of the above, I would be interested to understand what course of action you would suggest Israel follow. It seems eminently clear that Hamas is an enormous threat to Israel, and that it is not even remotely deterred from continuing to conduct attacks against the state of Israel. It has done everything in its power to make it such that any attack against Hamas will lead to incredibly high numbers of civilian casualties, no matter how much effort Israel might put into avoiding them. Do you believe that Israel should simply stop attempting to root out Hamas, and to simply accept that its people will continue to be kidnapped and killed? The war crimes committed by Israelis are abhorrent, and must stop. I was shocked to see clips of Israeli politicians saying that sexual abuse of Hamas PoWs is justified, because "anything is justified against terrorists". Likewise the forensic article you sent me shows an incredibly poor decision made by one or several IDF soldiers, which resulted in more needless death. But it seems to me that so long as Hamas exists and remains in power, Israeli citizens will never be safe. 
