# On Unconditional Self-Love

The point we have to come to terms with is that the vast majority of people do not feel comfortable in themselves exactly as they are now. We need to be something more, something greater, someting better. But if we asked ourselves the question of *why* it is that we're seeking to be that thing that is "more", we would find that we would want to feel relief from that desire to be something greater or better. The trouble is, we are all already as good as we need to be. It ultimately comes down to feeling insufficient as we are.

The simple fact is, this idea has been around since Siddartha Gautama achieved enlightenment, and saw through all of this ego. And the trouble for those of us in the West is that we see this insight as being "woo-woo", and profoundly irrelevant to the modern world. We fail to see that it applies to all humans, not just those with a hippie buddhist bent. So what is preventing us in the west from adopting it more widely? 

Put simply, our entire system of incentives is built around ideas that are totally contrary to this idea. And this idea wends into the fabric of every element of our system. So perhaps the question becomes, how can we actually seek to reap the benefits of this self-abnegating buddhist approach while still remaining integrated into the Western system? 

Ultimately it comes down to the ability to resist peer pressure. And that is manifestly easier to do when we are, above all else, comfortable within ourselves. We might call that a form of enlightenment: ultimate comfort in one's own skin. 

It is interesting to talk about the idea of one's internal weather. How we feel within ourselves, in the absence of any external stimulus. 

Boiling it all down, the question becomes, what can we do - what positive action can we take - towards building the ability to feel comfortable within oneself. Meditation is an obvious answer, but specifically what we do as part of that meditation is incredibly wide-ranging. Simply put, we have to find a way to treat ourselves with love. But when one is starting from a position of feeling that one is "not enough", treating oneself with love is remarkably challenging. 

We might think to turn to affirmations, or "positive psychology". To refer to whatever study seems most relevant would be an easy fall-back. But putting it as simply as possible, the key is to cultivate the unconditional love for ourselves that a parent ideally feels for their child. This would be a self-evident question to ask any parent: if your child did something really stupid, would you love them any less? The answer, of course, would be no. That is not to say that the parent wouldn't feel disappointment, or to want better for the child, but they fundamentally would not love their child any less - or at least, they shouldn't love that child any less. Because that love is unconditional. Unconditional essentially means "unearned" - and this is what Westerners find so hard to grasp. We feel, on a very fundamental level, that everything in life has to be earned. This stems from a very deep sense of fairness - a fairness that has been baked into our genetics for millions of years. But there are a very few things in life that do not need to be earned; and one of those is parental love. And that, ultimately, is what we have to cultivate for ourselves. A parent can love a child as they are while also helping and encouraging them to become the fullest version of the person that they could be. 

And for so many of us, especially those of us who are driven to the highest heights of achievement, that drive comes as a direct result of a rupture in the unconditional love their parents felt, or did not feel for them. For some, it propels them to the highest heights of human achievement. And this has led some pundits to comment that there is a "right amount" of childhood trauma that children should be exposed to. Too little, and they aren't driven to high achievement. Too much, and they are unable to function due to the sheer amount of trauma they have suffered. What an utterly insane idea. The vast, overwhelming majority of those who are traumatised as children, preimarily through a rupture in their feeling of unconditional parental love, do not go on to achieve great things. And, most importantly, even when they do, it does not fill the hole left by the absence of that unconditional love. They are seeking to fill a bottomless pit by pouring more and more water into it, finding it empty whenever they look down into it. Those of us who have not achieved those great things continue to buy into the idea that while *those* people might not feel happy with their achievements, *we* would, if we had them. Nonsense. We would feel exactly as they do: empty and alone. 

So the ultimate challenge we are faced with: conform with the group desire towards achievement, and either feel thwarted and worthless in a failed attempt, or succeed, and find that success hollow, or choose a path that will take us closer to individual fulfilment, but face a constant onslaught of disapproval and non-understanding from those around us. 

This hyperbole might lead one to think that I am advocating for no ambition whatever. That is not the case. What I am advocating for is a kind of "healthy" ambition, that is not governed or driven by deep feelings of personal inadequacy. 
